# Game-Development- Tower Defense
# 21/03/2017
# Fergal Powell
# 752871

The first thing you see when you open up the game. There is three buttons. The options button allows the user to the games music and sounds volume. The Quit button will close down the game. The Play button will start the loading screen. After the loading is completed you can click play button to start the game. In the game you can press the esc button to open the in-game menu which allows you to restart the game, quit to main menu, resume game and control the music and sound in options.

On the intial game screen, in the top left corner you can see your currency. In the centre-top you can see the wave counter which should be at 0 from the beginning and just below is the next wave button. Clicking the next wave button will begin the next wave which will spawn the attacking aliens, increase the wave counter and disable the ability of the user to place anymore towers. Towers already placed before the wave is started can be upgraded during the wave. The number of attacking aliens start off as one but each wave the number of attacking aliens increases by one. The monsters task is to go from the blue portal in the top left where they are spawned to the red portal in the bottom right. If the alien reaches the red portal it will reduce the user's lives by one. The user's lives are displayed in the top right corner. They user begins with 10 lives and when the lives reach zero a game over screen will appear where the user can restart or quit. To stop the aliens from reaching the red spawn the user can place towers in between waves on the map. 

There are four different types of towers the player can use. On the right hand side of the screen they're is an icon that represents each one. The player can click on the the icon of the tower they want to place, then they can choose where on the map they want to place it and when they choose they can click on the tile and the tower will be placed. The tile must turn a green when hovering over it in order for the tower to be placed . If the tile turns red then the tower cannot be placed. The tile will turn red if there is an object already on the tile, e.g. another tower or a portal, or if it will block the monsters only path. When the player hoovers over the tower's icon, some information about the tower will appear in the bootm right corner. Each tower has a debuff that they can apply to their target. the debuff is applied if the tower procs when it hits the target.

Storm Tower: The damage the tower does to the monster is 5, the special procedure chance is 10%, The debuff duration is one second and the debuff is that it has a chance to stunn the target.
Frsot Tower: The damage the tower does to the monster is 5, the special procedure chance is 10%, The debuff duration is five seconds and the debuff is that it has a chance to slow down the target. The slowing factor is 20%.
Fire Tower: The damage the tower does to the monster is 5, the special procedure chance is 10%, The debuff duration is ten seconds and the debuff is that it can apply damage over time (DOT) to the target.
Poisen Tower: The damage the tower does to the monster is 10, the special procedure chance is 10%, The debuff duration is five seconds and the debuff is that it can apply a splash damage which is when it soaks the monster in poisen and when the monster walks around the poisen can drip off the monster and other monsters that walk into the splash, will be damaged.

When the player clicks on the tower, a blue ring will appear which will indicate the range of the tower. If a monster walks inside the range of the tower it will shoot at it. When the player is clicked into a tower, you can also hoover over the upgrade button which is in the icon on the right in the middle and it will show in the bottom right corner how the tower can be upgraded. A tower can upgraded three times only. Players cans sell their towers. When clicked into the tower the player can click the sell icon on the left in the middle of the screen. The amount of money the player gets for the tower is half what they invested in the tower including upgrades.

Each tower has a different element, Storm, Frost, Fire, Poisen, and so does the monsters. There are four types of monsters, Purple, Blue, Red and Green. Each monster has an element that it takes the least damage from and is ammune to the debuffs. The purple takes least damage and is immune to the debuffs from the storm tower. The blue monster takes the least damage and is immune to the debuffs from the frost tower. The red monster takes the least damage and is immune to the debuffs from the fire tower. The green monster takes the least damage and is immune to the debuffs from the poisen tower.

The monster try to find the shortest path from the blue portal to the red portal. They use the aStart algorithm to find the shortest path. The player can also move the camera around the map by using the w,a,s,d keys on the keyboard.
